If you are an educator, you may be familiar with the terms “Teacher Centered Learning” and “Student Centered Learning”. But for those who aren’t, I'm pretty sure you can guess what they are. If I were to compare a teacher centered learning environment to a play, I’d say the teacher is the protagonist, hogging all the limelight and the students are just the add ons,  merely secondary characters or props for aesthete and nothing more. The show can go on even without them. In this “All eyes on me” learning environment, teachers go on and on “teaching” their subject, with hardly any interaction with students. They don't even get a chance to think for themselves as knowledge is thrown at them continuously! As a result, students gradually loose interest and tend to dose off in class.


Im sure almost Everyone of you has been a student at some point in your life. And if you are out of school now, there is a very high chance that you would have experienced the brunt of teacher centric Learning : Listening to hours of lectures in the classroom. In the beginning, you hear everything the teacher says quite clearly. But such lectures quickly turn into lullabies and his voice appears to get fainter with every passing moment, and your vision gradually blurs. Before you know it, your friend gives you a shoulder nudge, whispering, “Wake up! The teacher is looking!”. We obviously don't want this in the classroom. Unfortunately, most classroom environments even today are predominantly Teacher centric.


Institutions need to incorporate a teaching strategy that gets students more involved with the subject. In order to get them more active, teachers must encourage students to “teach” themselves and use their creativity to overcome obstacles without external assistance. In this student centric environment, students get a chance to take on the protagonist role for a change and can explore more than ever before.


HOW DO WE MAKE THE CLASSROOM MORE STUDENT CENTERED?
A Student centric classroom is merely an environment that a classroom can have. But this itself is developed using different methods.


PROJECT BASED LEARNING
In Project Based Learning (PBL), the teacher steps down from stage and in turn assigns projects to students. These projects usually encompass ideas that they will actually be dealing with in the real world. Projects can be done individually or in groups. In any case, this allows students to look for information they need themselves, instead of relying on the teacher for answers. If organized in groups, students get a chance to interact with their peers, pool in gathered information and come up with a working solution together, thus enhancing their social skills and teamwork through collaboration.  As a result, students not only get credit for their hard work, but also learn something in the process.
On a completely subjective note, PBL is more effective than any quiz that a teacher may give in the classroom.


Project based learning may also involve presenting your findings in the classroom. This is where the students take the stage, expressing their obstacles and how they overcame them, in their own words. With this, they get experience as to how to address large crowds, which will certainly help them in their professional life. You may be the smartest person in the world. But if you don't know how to express your thoughts, how can you expect people to work with you?.


PEER LEARNING 
When working on group projects, different students contribute different things. Everyone is capable of something . Some are good at critical thinking, whereas others may excel in logical analysis or creativity or gathering information. But how will each know what the others have done? It is important for each of them to explain their work to the other members. By continuous exposure to such student-student interaction ,they develop the ability to explain things in such a way that even a person who is weak in the field should be able to at least get a general idea about it. 

DO IT YOURSELF
DIY, at first glance, may appear to be the opposite of group based activity. However, there is more collaboration in DIY than you think! Students come up with their own tasks and work together to accomplish it. It comes to the point where even the teacher would walk into the classroom and ask the students : “So, what are we doing today?”. A wonderful example of this is demonstrated by Shelley Wright, teacher and education blogger, whose students raised twenty thousand dollars, by their own will and their own resources without much intervention by their teacher. These children accomplished what seemed to be impossible, which shows how much they desired to make a difference!.


Sure, we cant expect every child in the world to have that desire to make a difference. However, a child’s personality and view of things is strongly influenced by their parents and teachers. So, its safe to say that if a child has even the faintest desire to help, parents and teachers should come together to make their dreams a reality. 