I've owned the Nexus 6P for nearly a month now and here are my thoughts (in pros and cons) of the phone in no particular order.


Pros:
Battery Life:
This is one of the biggest advantages of the Nexus 6P; as it lasts longer than other flagship android phones. The Nexus 6P can easily manage a heavy day of use, or a moderate day of use with extra battery life left over. When being compared to similar spec'd flagship phones such as the S6 Edge, G4, and the V10; this is is a significant improvement. In my personal use; i can manage to get 5 hours of screen on time with moderate (playing games, using reddit, and browsing social media) with the brightness set at 75% while using mostly wifi and occasionally switching to LTE. The 6P has its own quick charging, going from 0 to 100% in just an hour and 20 minutes. Your results may vary, but many other reviewers have given the Nexus 6P praise for it's above average battery life.


Performance:
Another main advantage of owning a Nexus phone is its stock software. This means no unnecessary apps, bloatware, or other preinstalled programs that bog down performance. However, this could be a slight con to those who enjoy the extra features manufacturers do include such as multi window or clearing all background apps with the push of a button. In addition to stock software, Nexus phones are first to receive updates directly from Google themselves. This means frequent and up to date software. Paired with the latest Snapdragon 810 (2.0), Adreno 430, and 3GB of LPDDR4 ram; the Nexus 6P has buttery smooth performance. Animations, load times, gaming, and multitasking are all superb. What good is a phone if the software isn't optimized well to run on its hardware?


Display:
Given the fact that the Nexus 6P does use a latest generation Samsung AMOLED panel with a 1440p resolution, it's no surprise that the display on the Nexus 6P is simply stunning. Having AMOLED technology in the display means that it has the ability to turn off individual pixels, giving black colors a ink-like look. In addition, colors are vibrant and saturated. If you prefer a more balanced and neutral look, SRGB mode can be turned on (via developer options). Maximum brightness is a little weak in direct sunlight, especially when compared to phones such as the S6 Edge. Overall the 6P has one of the best smartphones displays to date.


Speakers:
Because the 6P has dual front facing speakers; audio is louder and free from being blocked by a finger or hand when the phone is being held. From a non-audiophile's perspective; the 6P has speaker that is loud and clear. When paired with the gorgeous 1440p display; the 6P makes a great device for media consumption.


Build Quality:
The design of the phone is purely subjective; so i'll touch down on the build quality itself. The anodized aluminum combined with a nearly all metal chassis makes the phone feel premium and sturdy. With that being said; it’s also easy to scratch; so a phone skin or case is recommended. It won't bend when being put in your pocket and i have yet to see and bending on my own 6P. The very bottom portion of the phone is plastic (but feels just like aluminum); this allows NFC and other waves to pass through. The 6P feels just as premium as other flagship phones.


Camera: Without getting too technical, the camera on the Nexus 6P is definitely up there for top smartphone cameras, but does lack Optical Image Stabilization. This isn’t much of an issue unless you’ll be taking a lot of 4K video (where micro stutters are noticeable). Dynamic Laser Autofocus is fast and pictures are taken relatively fast (unless when taken in HDR+ mode), where the processing takes longer than other phones. In addition, there are no manual controls that can be found in the Samsung and LG phones, and the Camera software can be slightly laggy at times. The 6P does shine in low light performance; where enabling HDR+ makes a huge difference and goes head to head or sometimes even better than similar flagship phones. Pictures are a little saturated (not as much as the S6/Note), detailed, and sharp. Overall the camera is fantastic, but just a tad behind phones such as the S6/Note 5, iPhone 6s/6s+, and LG G4/ V10.


Nexus Imprint/fingerprint sensor:
This is a new feature implemented into the Nexus phones, and it’s amazing. It goes head to head with Apple’s own Touch ID in terms of accuracy and is (barely) the fastest in terms of unlock speeds. An advantage it has over the iPhone and other phones is that the phone can be directly unlocked via fingerprint without turning the screen on beforehand.


Cons:
No Wireless Charging:
Unlike most flagship android phones and the previous Nexus; the Nexus 6P does not support wireless charging. This is due to the aluminum design. However, NFC is supported. In my opinion, the reversible USB Type C that supports rapid charging makes up for it (it's reversible on both ends).


No Micro SD expansion:
Pretty self explanatory. The Nexus series hasn't had the option for expandable storage for a while now but it is something to note. However, the 128GB version of this phone is around the same price of the base models of other flagship phones.


Overall, the Nexus 6P is hands down, the best Android phone of 2015. It has an excellent battery, smooth performance, frequent software updates, sharp display, dual front facing speakers, and a good camera (especially in low light). In addition (at least for those buying in the U.S), it comes unlocked at a significantly lower price than its competitors. I would give this phone a 9 out of 10.


Feel free to leave any questions or comments below regarding any aspect of the phone or the review itself. I will respond within a day or two. If the review was helpful, please mark it as helpful and vice versa.