At first glance, a national curriculum does sound like a good idea. In such a case, we would not be depriving any student in the country of top - notch education. However, there are certain constraints that favors the decentralization of curriculum.


	In any country, we find people of varying backgrounds. They may live in the city, the countryside or even in rural areas. There are countries where, unlike in the U.S, english is not their primary language. People from the city can manage, but those in villages don't even know their alphabets. The medium of instruction should be english, which poses a basic problem. Furthermore, in  culturally diverse countries, some states predominantly  speak english , while others don’t. So, how can we expect to incorporate a universal curriculum? It simply ins’t feasible. Despite understanding the question, they may not be able to express their answers.
( Not everybody has the ability to cope with a national curriculum. )
	

	What we saw above was simply the language problem that other countries face. Aside from this, a “national curriculum” is difficult to manage. For a large country,It is much easier to bring the management down to the state level. For example, In a country like India or china, where the population exceeds one billion, there will be a large number of students.In this case, Organization at the state level seems more feasible. Here, we don’t burden the responsibility of managing millions of students on the national board.


	 We are now in the age of globalization. People wan’t to travel. They want to see the world. Students should be able to apply for jobs and survive  anywhere in the business world.
If a country’s education society wants to make this a reality, the standard for the national curriculum must be high. This requires a large teaching staff, which may not be available in many countries. For example,India has a large population. Thus, we require a number of teachers for primary education. This teaching staff must be highly qualified for the “national curriculum”. But, the country simply doesn't have such a vast number of teachers that are fit for the job. So, delivering high quality education becomes a problem.


	Apart from the lack of a full fledge teaching staff, High level of teaching requires a larger paycheck. Some people may not be able to afford such a high quality education. For some Asian and african countries, there is a very large gap between the rich and the poor. The poor can barely afford their daily bread, let alone a decent education. For example, In India, the economic status varies from state to state. For the economically backward states, the state government introduces schemes which allow even the poorest of the poor to get at least ‘some’ form of education. After all, something is better than nothing.


	However, there are some advantages to a universal national curriculum. First off, it is easier to compare academic performance of students interstate. This also would make economic background irrelevant as everybody would be entitled to the same education. This would be ideal only in some countries with a high standard of living and a common language, like the U.S. But, in a diverse country like India, decentralization of the national curriculum into a number of state curriculums seems like a better option. Every state has their own “state curriculum”  which addresses linguistic,cultural and population constraints which makes such a decentralized system the most efficient form of primary education in all countries as a whole.