 What keeps people bound to a city is its economic status. There may be cases in which the prices of daily milk and bread may increase. If People feel that this increase is too dramatic, so much so that they cant even afford such a basic amenity, then they will think about leaving this city. This is often the case in developing countries, like India, where the economic status of a city fluctuates indefinitely. A city like XXXXX, which was once overpopulated, is now suffering from YYYYY.


	We now live in a world where promoting tourism is essential to maintain a city’s economy. By promoting tourism, we give people a chance to see the city with their own eyes. When you give people a reason to move, they would. More people means more jobs to support the working sector. For example, the city Agra, in India, is the home of one of the seven wonders of the world - “Taj Mahal”. The government support to enhancement of tourism in Agra has seen an increase in people and, jobs.


	Advertising,of course, requires money that the city must be willing to spend. If there is a requirement for jobs, then we need to make sure that we have enough jobs available in order to avoid underemployment. This is often a problem in India. While most major cities are financially supported by the government, others are not. when we see agriculture, although there may be increase in the number of people, we often see that around ,say ten, people are employed for field work when only say four are required.


	Different cities have their own culture and their own ways of celebrating it. The ultimate goal is to make the people happy. This is done by addressing their needs. In Mysore, a city in India, “Dasara” is a festival that is celebrated for ten days straight. Here, people hold rallies, and professional musicians hold concerts in the famous “Mysore Palace”. This is why the locals are so patriotic. But to hold such a celebration, money is required. Government is, thus, required to support the city.


	Although, It is true that major cities require proper funding for its development, we must see to it that “all” cities receive the same attention. Without this, different major cities will have a highly varying economic status. Such is the case , like in India, where there are to many “major cities” whose interests must be protected. It simply becomes impossible to deal with them all. Here,the government should take additional steps to rationalize their fundings .