Four types of essays exist including: narration, description, exposition, and argument. Each type has a unique purpose: some tell a story, some are descriptive and others prevent viewpoints. One of the best ways to better understand each type of essay is to review examples.


Narration is telling a story from a certain viewpoint, and there is usually a reason for the telling. All narrative essays will have characters, setting, climax, and most importantly, a plot. The plot is the focus of the story and is usually revealed chronologically, but there are sometimes flash forwards and flash backs. 

In writing a narrative essay, remember to: Include sensory and emotional details, so the reader will experience the story, not just read about it
Have the story support the point you are making, and make reference to that point in the first sentence.Write in the first or third person. Descriptive essays have text which describes traits and characteristics of people, objects, events, feelings, etc in intricate detail.


Whatever is being described will be thoroughly examined. For example, if you were describing roses, you would explain:
Where they come from
What they look like
What colors they are
How they grow and smell
When you write a descriptive essay, you want to involve the reader’s senses and emotions. For example, you could say, “I got sleepy” or describe it like this, "As I was waiting for Santa, my eyelids began to get heavy, the lights on the tree began to blur with the green branches, and my head started to drop." The second sentence gives vivid details to make the reader feel like he is there.


Expository essays can compare, explore and discuss problems, or tell a story. An exposition essay gives information about various topics to the reader. It:
Be concise and easy to understand
Give different views on a subject or report on a situation or event
Explain something that may be difficult to understand as you write your essay.
Remember that your purpose is to explain.

In an argumentative essay the writer is trying to convince the reader by demonstrating the truth or falsity of a topic. The writer’s position will be backed up with certain kinds of evidence, like statistics or opinions of experts. The writer is not just giving an opinion, but making an argument for or against something and supporting that argument with data. To know how to write an essay in an argumentative way, you have to research and backup what you say in the text. Learn by Example When learning how to write an essay, sometimes the best way to learn is to look and analyze essay examples.